# DevNet Alexa Data Center Skill Lab

## Setup Your environment

These steps will setup your environment and get you ready to put together your DevNet Alexa Data Center Skill.

#### Get the Skill Code

 - Double-Click the "Coding Alexa Skill" icon on the desktop. This will open a command window in a directory where you'll do your work.

 - Make a directory called "**alexa**"

  - type this command `mkdir alexa` and hit enter

- Change to the "**alexa**" directory

  - type this command `chdir alexa` and hit enter

- Get the code with Git, this code will be the **Lambda Function**

  - type this command `git clone https://github.com/movinalot/devnet-alexa.git` and hit enter.
  - It will take a few moments for the code to download.

You just **cloned** (copied) code to your computer from **github.com** This is the code that will run in AWS in the Lambda service when your voice request triggers it

#### Make a Virtual Environment

- Make a virtual environment where you'll put the Skill code pieces together.

  - type this command `virtualenv venv` and hit enter

  - This command setup a virtual environment and put it is a directory called "**venv**" directly beneath the directory where you are currently located.

- Copy the files from the "devnet-alexa" directory to the "venv" directory

  - type this command `copy .\devnet-alexa\* .\venv` and hit enter

You did this to keep a clean copy of the file in the "**devnet-alexa**" directory and have working copies in the "**venv**" directory

- Change to the "venv" directory

  - type this command `cd venv` and hit enter

#### Activate the Virtual Environment

- Activate the virtual environment, you'll install the AWS CLI in this environment.

  - type this command `.\Scripts\activate` and hit enter

Your prompt will now have a "(venv)" prefix. This prefix lets you know that you are in a virtual environment.

- Install the "AWS CLI", this is a package of Python code that allows you to interact with the AWS service from you command line

  - type this command `pip install awscli` and hit enter

  - This operation will take a few moments to complete.

- Configure your Access Keys for AWS Services. These keys allow you to interact with the AWS services without having to continually enter your credentials. It also configures the default AWS region, and output format.

  - type this command `aws configure` and hit enter

    - enter your AWS Access Key ID - `XXXXXXXXXXXX`

    - enter your AWS Secret Access Key - `XXXXXXXXXXXXX`

    - enter your Default region name - `us-east-1`

    - enter your Default output format - `json`

#### What You Did!

Good job so far!  Here's what you did.

- you created a directory for all your work called "**alexa**"

- you **cloned** all the code for the "**Alexa Skill**" into a sub-directory of your "**alexa**" directory called "**devnet-alexa**". The 'git' command created that directory for you when you cloned the code from 'Github'

- you created a virtual environment called "**venv**" that is a a sub-directory of your "**alexa**" called "**venv**"

- you copied the files that you cloned with the 'git' command from the "**devnet-alexa**" to the "**venv**" directory.

- you changed directories to the "**venv**" directory. This is where you'll do your local work.

- you activated the virtual environment, you should have noticed your prompt changed from "PS Z:\Documents\src\alexa\venv>" to "(venv). PS Z:\Documents\src\alexa\venv>"

**Note** : Update with LL paths

- you installed the AWS CLI Python package

- you configured your AWS credentials

Now your environment is setup and ready to go.

The next step is package up the code and make the Lambda Function.

Goto Page 3
